# Data Privacy, Security, and Regulatory Compliance in Healthcare AI
## Section 1: Data Privacy and Regulatory Compliance in General
### Slide 1: Disclaimer: Data Privacy has to follow Compliances
    - Compliances is Govt issue (+Data Breach)
    - Security is Business issue (Business, Reputation and Money Loss)
    - Since no compliance, it becomes an ethical issue.
### Slide 2: What is Data? (in our current context)
    - information (Static)(Privacy)
        - Data (Dynamic, Activity, Movement)
            - Comes from Web Browsers
            - Comes from Data Collection Agencies (Aadhar, Census, School)
            - Comes from Smart Devices, Mobile devices (create massive datasets)
            - Comes from Diagnostics Labs (Pathology, Imaging), Social Workers
            - Comes from Imaging. Picture Archiving and Communication Systems (PACS)
            - Comes from Health Insurance Companies
            - Comes from EHR
            - DNA Data
            - Physical Measurements of Waist, Height from Readymade Apparels sites
            - Pharma selling shops
            - Alcoholics, Opoid Ab/uses, 
                - which Governments happily promotes
                - (Official Alcohol consumption in Nagpur District alone in year 2024 is 4 cr litres)
                - Tobacco not included
            - Comes from Surveys, Air/Water Quality, Humidy, Ambient Temperature (Environment)
        - We are not discussing about Data Quality, Data Gap.
### Slide 3: What is Data Privacy?
    - My information is mine, You have your's. I don'tknow your's
    - Data Privacy is theability of Individual to control the Personal Information
### Slide 4: Examples of Data Privacy Breaches, Abuses
    - AI for Mobility Detection in China
    - AI in Meta, Apple etc. Glass telling all information about a Person
        - 1984, The Animal Farm George Orwell
            - serves as a timely reminder of the perils of authoritarianism.
    - Julias Asagne
    - Google Data Breach
    - Google and Microsoft sharing Data with US Government
### Slide 5: Threats of Data Privacy Breaches, Abuses
    - All Cloud Providers in AI Domain
        - Microsoft using Github
        - Google has Chrome, Image, FormData, PDFs
    - Social Network Providers in AI Domain
    - All Chipset Providers in AI Domain
        - Nobody else is a Serious Player
### Slide 7: Opposite Approches
    - 1. Hide totally
        - Not Possible. Difficult to Govern. Faultlines. Crimes. Commercial Sale
    - 2. Disclose every information
        - That is preferable
### Slide 6: Implementation
    - Implement Anonymity.
        - Authenticate using Aadhar, (Not Phone Number, eMails).
             - Data for Sale.
             - Dark Web
    - Platform for Privacy Preference (P3P) (2002-2016)
        ```
        <META xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2002/01/P3Pv1">
            <POLICY-REFERENCES>
                <EXPIRY max-age="10000000"/><!-- about four months -->
            </POLICY-REFERENCES>
        </META>
        ```
        - For local Trust and Preferences
        Lack of Values, Browser's Individual Privacy mode
    - GDPR is an alternative (For Europe) (Not in USA)
        - 7 Pillars
            - Notice: data subjects should be given notice when their data is being collected;
            - Purpose: data should only be used for the purpose stated and not for any other purposes;
            - Consent: data should not be disclosed without the data subject's consent;
            - Security: collected data should be kept secure from any potential abuses;
            - Disclosure: data subjects should be informed as to who is collecting their data;
            - Access: data subjects should be allowed to access their data and make corrections to any inaccurate data
            - Accountability: data subjects should have a method available to them to hold data collectors accountable for not following the above principles.[7]
    - US has 
        - Video Privacy Protection Act
        - Fair Credit Reporting Act
        - HIPAA (Health Insuarance Portability and Accountability Act)
    - Data Protection Board of India
        - Digital Personal Data Protection Act (Sep 2023)
            - Yet to come into force
                - That is why Ethics
## Section 2: Data Security in General
### Slide 7: Data Protection
    - Old
    - Problem is that no Government can control it. Prove the Breach.
    - A user has practically no control over his data.
### Slide 8:
    - Healthcare: Why Data is Tempting
    - This whole talk of Data 
## Section 3: Data Privacy and Regulatory Compliance in Healthcare
## Section 4: Data Security in Healthcare
### Slide 9: Data Sovereignty
    - Data sovereignty refers to digital data that is subject to the laws of the country in which it is located.
    - The increasing adoption of cloud data services and a perceived lack of security has led many countries to introduce new legislation that requires data to be kept within the country in which the customer resides.
    - Current concerns surrounding data sovereignty are related to governments trying to prevent data from being stored outside the geographic boundaries of the originating country. Ensuring that data exists only in the host country can be complex and often relies on the detail provided in the Service Level Agreement with the Cloud Service Provider.
    - Do Governments want to control Data, Manipulate outcomes, profit from data?